# Graphics Pipeline

> transforming all 3D coordinates to 2D pixels that fit on screen.
> processing cores to quickly process vertex data within the graphics pipeline by running small programs on the GPU.

### kind of render types (hint)

- GL_POINTS
- GL_TRIANGLES
- GL_LINE_STRIP

### Step

- Vertex Shader : Transform 3D coordinates into different 3D coordinates.
- Shape Assembly : Assemble all the points in the primitive shape given.
- Geometry Shader : Generate other shapes by emitting new vertices to form new primitive.
- Rasterization : Clipping and maps the resulting primitive(s) to the corresponding pixels on the final screen.
- Fragment Shader : Calculate the final color of a pixel.
- Alpha test and Blending : Check if the resulting fragment is in front or behind other objects and should be discarded accordingly. Also checks for alpha values and blends the objects.

---

### Flynn's Texanomy

Flynn's taxonomy is a classification of computer architectures, proposed by Michael J. Flynn in 1966. The classification system has stuck, and has been used as a tool in design of modern processors and their functionalities. Since the rise of multiprocessing central processing units (CPUs), a multiprogramming context has evolved as an extension of the classification system.

#### Classifications

The four classifications defined by Flynn are based upon the number of **concurrent instruction** (or control) streams and **data streams available** in the architecture.

| Classification                             | instruction stream | data stream |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------ | ----------- |
| [SISD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SISD) | single             | single      |
| [SIMD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SIMD) | single             | multiple    |
| [MISD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MISD) | multiple           | single      |
| [MIMD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIMD) | multiple           | multiple    |
