# Sending Data

## Sending data to a shader using vertex attributes and vertex buffer object

- in the vertex shader, the vertex input attributes are defined using the **in** GLSL qualifier.

[more code : drawing triangle](../practice/1.1.drawTriangle/main.c)

### Vertex Buffer Object(VBO)

1. Store a large nmuber of vertices in the GPU's Memory.
   > we can send large batches of data all at once to the graphics card.
2. Create the vertex buffer object for each attribute.

```c++
unsigned int VBO;
glGenBuffers(1, &VBO);
```

3. Bind the newly created buffer to the GL_ARRAY_BUFFER (GL_ELEMENT_ARRAY_BUFFER, GL_TEXTURE_BUFFER ... )

```c++
glBindBuffer(GL_ARRAY_BUFFER, VBO);
```

4. Make a call to glBufferData function that copies the previously defined vertex data into the buffer's memory.

```c++
glBufferData(GL_ARRAY_BUFFER, 9 * sizeof(float), vertices, GL_STATIC_DRAW);

// GL_STATIC_DRAW: the data will most likely not change at all or very rarely
// GL_DYNAMIC_DRAW: the data is likely to change a lot
// GL_STREAM_DRAW: the data will change every time it is drawn
```

5. Link vertext attributes

```c++
glVertexAttribPointer(0, 3, GL_FLOAT, GL_FALSE, 3 * sizeof(float), (void*)0);
glEnableVertexAttribArray(0);
```

> - 1st parameter:the location of the vertex attribute in the vertex shader (layout (location = 0))
> - 2nd parameter:the size of the vertex attribute (3 values)
> - 3rd parameter:the type of the data
> - 4th parameter: specify if we want the data to be normalized
> - 5th parameter: the stride, the space between consecutive vertex attribute sets
> - 6th parameter: the offset of where the position data begins in the buffer, type void\*

### Vertex Array Object(VAO)

> This makes switching between different vertex data and attribute configurations as easy as binding a different VAO Core OpenGL requires that we use a VAO.
> 편의를 위해서 설정까지 함께 저장

- calls to **glEnableVertexAttribArray** or **glDisableVertexAttribArray**
- vertex attribute configurations via **glVertexAttribPointer**
- vertex buffer objects associated with vertex attributes by
  calls to **glVertexAttribPointer**

1. Create and define a vertex array object.

```c++
unsigned int VAO;
glGenVertexArrays(1, &VAO);
```

2. Bind theVAO

```c++
glBindVertexArray(VAO);
```

3. Bind/configure the corresponding VBO(s) and attribute
   pointer(s) and then unbind the VAO for later use.

```c++
glVertexAttribPointer(0, 3, GL_FLOAT, GL_FALSE, 3 * sizeof(float), (void *)0);
glEnableVertexAttribArray(0);
```

4. Simply bind theVAO before drawing the object.

5. Drawing object

```c++
// in render
glUseProgram(shaderProgram);
glBindVertexArray(VAO);
glDrawArrays(GL_TRIANGLES, 0, 3);
```

[more attribute](../practice/1.3.MoreAttribute/main.c)

### Element Buffer Object(EBO)

> Draw ab object frin an index buffer. 데이터의 중복성을 피할 수 있다.

[more code](../practice/1.2.EBO/tribute/main.c)

## Sending data to a shader using uniform varibles

1. Uniform variables are intended to be used for data that may change relatively infrequently compare to per-vertex attrubutes.
2. Uniform variables can appear in any shader and are always used as input variables.
3. unique per shader program object.

### Uniform variable를 이용해서 시간에 따라 색을 변화시키는 예제

#### application

```c++
float timeValue = glfwGetTime();
float greenValue = sin(timeValue) / 2.0f + 0.5f;
int vertexColorLocation = glGetUniformLocation(shaderProgram, "ourColor");
glGetProgram(shaderProgram);
glUniform4f(vertexColorLocation, 0.0f, greenValue, 0.0f, 1.0f);
```

#### fragment shader

```glsl
#version 430 core

out vec4 FragColor;
uniform vec4 ourColor;
void main()
{
  FragColor = ourColor;
}

```
